2024-fall/README.md, before:

# Contemporary Civilization

Section 5 | Fall 2024  
Dennis Yi Tenen, Philosophy Hall 408e  
Columbia University  

*When?* Mon & Wed, 10:10--12pm  
*Where?* TBD

## Description

“Founded in 1919 as a course on War and Peace Issues, the central purpose of
Contemporary Civilization is to introduce students to a range of issues
concerning the kinds of communities--political, social, moral, and religious
--that human beings construct for themselves and the values that inform and
define such communities; the course is intended to prepare students to become
active and informed citizens. While readings in this one-year course change
from time to time, the factors that lead to adoption of a text always include
historical influence, the presentation of ideas of enduring importance, and
the demonstrated ability of a text to provoke productive discussion.”

## Course Requirements and Grading

* 25% Class Participation
* 25% Online Forum
* 25% Study Guide
* 25% Final Exam

## Course Concepts and Policies

* [Academic
  Integrity](https://github.com/denten-courses/teaching-concepts/blob/master/academic-integrity.md)
* No laptops please. Bring a paper copy of each text to class.
* [Forum Posts](https://github.com/denten-courses/teaching-concepts/blob/master/forum-posts.md)
* [Philosophers'
  Walks](https://github.com/denten-courses/teaching-concepts/blob/master/philosophers-walk.md)
* [Slow
  Reading](https://github.com/denten-courses/teaching-concepts/blob/master/slow-reading.md)

## Links & Resources

* All readings not in the standard Core Box will be linked from this document
directly.
* [Columbia Courseworks](https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/202421) for the Forum, Files, and Assignments.


## Provisional Schedule

### Week 1: Plato's *Republic* I

Reading schedule. Course tour. Plato's *Republic* (~375 BCE).

### Week 2: Plato's *Republic* II

The *Republic* continued.

### Week 3: Aristotle's Politics and Ethics

- Books I, II, III, V from the *Politics*
- Books II and V in Aristotle's *Ethics*

### Week 4: Hebrew Bible

- Genesis, Exodus
- Book of Job

### Week 5: New Testament

- Assigned one of: Mark, Luke, Matthew.
- Romans, Galatians, Book of Revelation
- Synoptic Gospels in-class assignment, using the [Parallels][PLLL] and [The Five Gospels][TFGP] resource.

[TFGP]: https://sites.utoronto.ca/religion/synopsis/
[PLLL]: https://www.gospelparallels.com/

### Week 6: Chinese Philosophy

- From [*Readings in Classical Chinese
Philosophy*](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16YFSgWvMf5ilNrdg65CcZj65V1r6mr_T/view?usp=sharing
) read *The Analects* (~479 BCE) by Kongzi (pages 1--60) and *Daodejing* (~450 BCE) by Laozi,
(Book 1, ch. 1-37).

[BCR]: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1RGwDaSd95gGEMC_wE4i6QUKbKwjOcnGs/view?usp=sharing

### Week 7: Fall of Rome

- Seneca, selections from [*Moral Letters to Lucilius*][MLL] ~65CE (in-class activity).
- Augustine, *City of God* (~410CE), Books V, ~~VIII~~, XII, and XIV

[MLL]: https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Moral_letters_to_Lucilius

### Week 8: Al-Andalus

- "The Son of Consciousness" (Hayy Ibn Yaqzān) ~1150 by Ibn Tufayl, pages 3--67 in the [CC
  Reader][73].
- [*The Guide of the Perplexed*][72] c. 1185 by Moses Maimonides
- Chapter VI, Sections 1--9 in the [Muqaddimah][71] (1377) by Ibn Khaldun.

[71]: https://www.muslimphilosophy.com/ik/Muqaddimah/Chapter6/Toc_Ch_6.htm
[72]: https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/system/files/text/Maimonides.pdf
[73]: https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/conciv/ccreader

### Week 9: Medieval Europe

- In-class exercise on [Summa Theologiae][81] (~1250) by Thomas Aquinas (Second Part One and Second Part Two).
- Catherine of Siena, *The Dialogue of Divine Providence* (~1377)
- Christine de Pizan, *The Book of Body Politic* (1407), pages 1-111.
- Julian of Norwich, [*Revelations of Divine Love*][82] (~1450).

[81]: https://www.newadvent.org/summa/
[82]: https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/system/files/text/Revelations%20of%20Divine%20Love.pdf

### Week 10: Machiavelli

- The Prince (1513)
- Discourses I:1-10, 16-18; III:1-2, 7-9, 28-30 (chapters, not page numbers)

### Week 11: Protestant Reformation

- Finish Discourses I:1-10, 16-18; III:1-2, 7-9, 28-30 (chapters, not page numbers)
- Martin Luther (~1520s): "The Freedom of a Christian" (link
  [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1h0SPClwWiPkzu1OXOP4UwnlroW6_TAP9)),
"Concerning Governmental Authority," "The Twelve Articles of the Swabian Peasants," and
"Friendly Admonition to Peace Concerning Twelve Articles" in the [CC
Reader](https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/conciv/ccreader).

### Week 12: Renaissance

- Montaigne "On Cannibals," "On Friendship," "On Lying" (~1580).
- Francis Bacon "On Empire, "On Friendship," "On Truth" (~1597).

### Week 13: Descartes and Conclusion

- Rene Descartes, [Discourse on the Method of Rightly
Conducting the Reason, and seeking Truth in the
Sciences](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/descartes/1635/discourse-method.htm)
(1639).

Commit message:

add a section on chinese thought

2024-fall/README.md, after:

# Contemporary Civilization

Section 5 | Fall 2024  
Dennis Yi Tenen, Philosophy Hall 408e  
Columbia University  

*When?* Mon & Wed, 10:10--12pm  
*Where?* TBD

## Description

“Founded in 1919 as a course on War and Peace Issues, the central purpose of
Contemporary Civilization is to introduce students to a range of issues
concerning the kinds of communities--political, social, moral, and religious
--that human beings construct for themselves and the values that inform and
define such communities; the course is intended to prepare students to become
active and informed citizens. While readings in this one-year course change
from time to time, the factors that lead to adoption of a text always include
historical influence, the presentation of ideas of enduring importance, and
the demonstrated ability of a text to provoke productive discussion.”

## Course Requirements and Grading

* 25% Class Participation
* 25% Online Forum
* 25% Study Guide
* 25% Final Exam

## Course Concepts and Policies

* [Academic
  Integrity](https://github.com/denten-courses/teaching-concepts/blob/master/academic-integrity.md)
* No laptops please. Bring a paper copy of each text to class.
* [Forum Posts](https://github.com/denten-courses/teaching-concepts/blob/master/forum-posts.md)
* [Philosophers'
  Walks](https://github.com/denten-courses/teaching-concepts/blob/master/philosophers-walk.md)
* [Slow
  Reading](https://github.com/denten-courses/teaching-concepts/blob/master/slow-reading.md)

## Links & Resources

* All readings not in the standard Core Box will be linked from this document
directly.
* [Columbia Courseworks](https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/202421) for the Forum, Files, and Assignments.


## Provisional Schedule

### Week 1: Plato's *Republic* I

Reading schedule. Course tour. Plato's *Republic* (~375 BCE).

### Week 2: Plato's *Republic* II

The *Republic* continued.

### Week 3: Aristotle's Politics and Ethics

- Books I, II, III, V from the *Politics*
- Books II and V in Aristotle's *Ethics*

### Week 4: Hebrew Bible

- Genesis, Exodus
- Book of Job

### Week 5: New Testament

- Assigned one of: Mark, Luke, Matthew.
- Romans, Galatians, Book of Revelation
- Synoptic Gospels in-class assignment, using the [Parallels][PLLL] and [The Five Gospels][TFGP] resource.

[TFGP]: https://sites.utoronto.ca/religion/synopsis/
[PLLL]: https://www.gospelparallels.com/

### Week 6: Chinese Philosophy

- From [*Readings in Classical Chinese
Philosophy*](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16YFSgWvMf5ilNrdg65CcZj65V1r6mr_T/view?usp=sharing
) read *The Analects* (~479 BCE) by Kongzi (pages 1--60) and *Daodejing* (~450 BCE) by Laozi,
(Book 1, ch. 1-37).
- Selections (TBD) from the [*Scripture on Great Peace*](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1c2PQ89wCnWC1VQFljBLtIxe7pRuekryV/view?usp=sharing).

[BCR]: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1RGwDaSd95gGEMC_wE4i6QUKbKwjOcnGs/view?usp=sharing

### Week 7: Roman Thought

- Seneca, selections from [*Moral Letters to Lucilius*][MLL] ~65 CE (in-class activity).
- Augustine, *City of God* (~410 CE), Books V, ~~VIII~~, XII, and XIV

[MLL]: https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Moral_letters_to_Lucilius

### Week 8: Al-Andalus

- "The Son of Consciousness" (Hayy Ibn Yaqzān) ~1150 by Ibn Tufayl, pages 3--67 in the [CC
  Reader][73].
- [*The Guide of the Perplexed*][72] c. 1185 by Moses Maimonides
- Chapter VI, Sections 1--9 in the [Muqaddimah][71] (1377) by Ibn Khaldun.

[71]: https://www.muslimphilosophy.com/ik/Muqaddimah/Chapter6/Toc_Ch_6.htm
[72]: https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/system/files/text/Maimonides.pdf
[73]: https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/conciv/ccreader

### Week 9: Medieval Europe

- In-class exercise on [Summa Theologiae][81] (~1250) by Thomas Aquinas (Second Part One and Second Part Two).
- Catherine of Siena, *The Dialogue of Divine Providence* (~1377)
- Christine de Pizan, *The Book of Body Politic* (1407), pages 1-111.
- Julian of Norwich, [*Revelations of Divine Love*][82] (~1450).

[81]: https://www.newadvent.org/summa/
[82]: https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/system/files/text/Revelations%20of%20Divine%20Love.pdf

### Week 10: Machiavelli

- The Prince (1513)
- Discourses I:1-10, 16-18; III:1-2, 7-9, 28-30 (chapters, not page numbers)

### Week 11: Protestant Reformation

- Finish Discourses I:1-10, 16-18; III:1-2, 7-9, 28-30 (chapters, not page numbers)
- Martin Luther (~1520s): "The Freedom of a Christian" (link
  [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1h0SPClwWiPkzu1OXOP4UwnlroW6_TAP9)),
"Concerning Governmental Authority," "The Twelve Articles of the Swabian Peasants," and
"Friendly Admonition to Peace Concerning Twelve Articles" in the [CC
Reader](https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/conciv/ccreader).

### Week 12: Renaissance

- Montaigne "On Cannibals," "On Friendship," "On Lying" (~1580).
- Francis Bacon "On Empire, "On Friendship," "On Truth" (~1597).

### Week 13: Descartes and Conclusion

- Rene Descartes, [Discourse on the Method of Rightly
Conducting the Reason, and seeking Truth in the
Sciences](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/descartes/1635/discourse-method.htm)
(1639).
