2020-spring/README.md, before:

---
title: Contemporary Civilization
date: Spring 2017
instructor: Dennis Tenen
office: Philosophy Hall 408e
contact: dt2406@columbia.edu
section number: CC1102-26
time: M&W 4:10-6:00pm
location: Hamilton 511

---

## The Enlightenment and its Discontents

> Founded in 1919 as a course on War and Peace Issues, the central purpose of
> Contemporary Civilization is to introduce students to a range of issues
> concerning the kinds of communities – political, social, moral, and
> religious – that human beings construct for themselves and the values that
> inform and define such communities; the course is intended to prepare
> students to become active and informed citizens. While readings in this
> one-year course change from time to time, the factors that lead to adoption
> of a text always include historical influence, the presentation of ideas of
> enduring importance, and the demonstrated ability of a text to provoke
> productive discussion.

In the second semester of our course we will explore the rise and the legacy
of Enlightenment thought, where sustained violence and colonial expansion
undermines the promise of rational, scientific basis for the human condition.

## Assessment

The class depends on an engaged readership. To this end, students are expected
read regularly, discuss the texts in class and online, complete a single "core
context" assignment along with a final exam.

* 25% [Class and Online Participation](#class-participation)
* 25% [Midterm Exam](#examinations)
* 25% [Final Exam](#examinations)
* 25% [Core Context](#core-context)

### Core Context

Every week, a student will deliver a short-presentation (~5--10 mins) on the context for the
Text/Author we are reading. This context will comprise of 3--4 headlines selected from
newspapers contemporary to the Text/Author. You can visit a Subject Specialists at Butler
Library <http://library.columbia.edu/about/policies/collection-development/liaisons.html> if
you need assistance in identifying the appropriate digitized archives of historical newspapers.
This presentation should be posted to Courseworks (assignments section) with appropriate PDFs
and/or screenshots for presentation in class.

### Class Participation

To get the full points, you will attend every single class, and be an active listener to your
colleagues, and sometimes, a commenter and facilitator for their ideas and sometimes, a speaker
of your own thoughts.

We expect our discussions--online and in-person--to answer to the ideals embodied in our texts.
We aim for a critical discussion, one that at the same time preserves the multiplicity of
voices present in the classroom. Listen as much as you speak, be respectful of dissenting
voices, enter into a dialogue rather than a soliloquy, show empathy, respond, and encourage
others to speak.

### Examinations

The final exam will consist of ~30 passage IDs. It is designed as an objective
metric that rewards regular engagement with the material.

## Policies

Attendance and participation is required. Class participation requires your active
participation. Some basic rules: come to class on time, do not disrupt the class, put your
phones on silent, turn off all computing devices. As a discussion seminar, this course survives
only if you come to every class, and participate by doing the readings, listening and
commenting in class, turning in the assignment and seeing me during my office hours. Discussion
means attentive and respectful listening, short and timely speaking, and creating a cordial and
warm atmosphere wherein all are invited to test their ideas and impressions. Please read
everything before class. Take notes in the margins of the text; underline key sentences and
paragraphs, annotate; write out what feels extraordinary, questionable, pleasant, or remarkable
(and remark it out loud in class).

### Student Attendance

> Students are expected to attend every session of their Core classes. Students
who miss class without instructor permission should expect to have their grade lowered.
Repeated unexcused absences will result in a failing grade or a withdrawal from the class. In
the event that a student must miss a class due to religious observance, illness, or family
emergency, instructors may strongly encourage (though not require) that students complete
additional assignments to help make up for lost class participation. Whenever possible (in the
case of religious holidays, for example), students should provide advance notification of
absence.

### Plagiarism and Academic Dishonesty

 Columbia College is dedicated to the highest ideals of integrity in academia.  Therefore, in
Literature Humanities and Contemporary Civilization, any instance of academic dishonesty,
attempted or actual, will be reported to the faculty chair of the course and to the dean of the
Core Curriculum, who will review the case with the expectation that a student guilty of
academic dishonesty will receive the grade of “F” in the course and be referred to dean’s
discipline for further institutional action.

## Class Schedule / Reading List

### Week 1

- (re)Introductions, course policies, the big picture.

### Week 2

- Thomas Hobbes, *Leviathan*, "Introduction" and "Part I: Of Man"

### Week 3

- John Locke, *Second Treatise of Government* and "An Essay Concerning Toleration."

### Week 4

- Jean-Jacques Rousseau, *Of the Social Contract, Or Principles of Political Right*, 1762:
  Books I and II.
- *Discourse on the Origin and Basis of Inequality Among Men* (1754), pages 45-92.

### Week 5

- Book 3, Chapter 4 (pages 215-240); Book 4, Chapter 3 (pages 295-312), and Book 5, Chapter 4
  (pages 492-522) in [*The Origin and Progress of the French Revolution*][402] (1794) by Mary
Wollstonecraft.
- Pages 147-176, 223-230, 361-365 in [*Reflections on the Revolution in France*][401] (1790) by Edmund
  Burke.

[402]:https://archive.org/download/historicalmoralv00woll/historicalmoralv00woll.pdf
[401]: https://oll.libertyfund.org/sources/1327-facsimile-pdf-burke-select-works-of-edmund-burke-vol-2/download

### Week 6

- Adam Smith, *An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations* (1776): Book 1
  (Chapter 1-5), Book 4 (Chapter 7, 8).
- Immanuel Kant, [*Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals*][261] (Preface & First Section) and
  [*Of the Different Human Races*][262] (1777, Chapter 2 in the Mikkelsen translation).

[261]: http://www.inp.uw.edu.pl/mdsie/Political_Thought/Kant%20-%20groundwork%20for%20the%20metaphysics%20of%20morals%20with%20essays.pdf
[262]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7158131

### Week 7

- G. W. F. Hegel, "[The Idea of History and its
     Realization](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/works/hi/introduction.htm)"
and "[The Course of World
History](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/works/hi/introduction.htm)."
- Olympe de Gouges, [*Declaration of Rights of Women and the Female Citizen*][602] (1791) 

[602]: https://www-jstor-org.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/stable/j.ctt19b9jvh.24?seq=1#metadata_info_tab_contents

### Week 8

- Chapter I, II, ~III~ in John Stewart Mill, [*On Liberty*][701] (1859) ~and [The Petition of the
  East India Company][702] (1858). Use [this edition][704] if Cambridge is not working for you.
- Peter Kropotkin, *Mutual Aid* (1902), Chapters 7 & 8 "[Mutual Aid Amongst Ourselves][703]"

[701]: https://doi-org.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/10.1017/CBO9781139149785
[702]: http://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/mill-the-collected-works-of-john-stuart-mill-volume-xxx-writings-on-india
[703]: https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/kropotkin-peter/1902/mutual-aid/ch07.htm
[704]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7478777

### Week 9

- Karl *Capital: A Critique of Political Economy* (1867): Part I, Chapter 1 (pages
  41-96). Full text [here][81]. Smaller file (just the selection) [here][83].
- Preface and Introduction to [*The Division of Labor in Society*][82] (1893) by Emile Durkheim,
pages 1-48. Smaller file [here][84].
- ~Selections form *The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism* (1904) by Max Weber.~

[81]: https://oll.libertyfund.org/sources/1456-facsimile-pdf-small-marx-capital-a-critique-of-political-economy-volume-i-the-process-of-capitalist-production/download
[82]: https://archive.org/download/in.ernet.dli.2015.233884/2015.233884.The-Division_text.pdf
[83]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7549650
[84]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7574209

### Week 10

- "Chapter 1: Introduction" and "Chapter 13: The Race Problem in Modern Society" in *[The Mind
of Primitive Man][91]* (1911) by Franz Boas.
- W. E. B. Du Bois, [*The Souls of Black Folk*][92] (1903): Chapters 1, 2, 3, 9, and 14.

[91]: https://archive.org/download/mindofprimitivem031738mbp/mindofprimitivem031738mbp.pdf
[92]: https://archive.org/download/cu31924024920492/cu31924024920492.pdf


### Week 11

- "Nationalism in the West" and "Sunset of the Century" in [*Nationalism*][1001] (1899) by
  Rabindranath Tagore.
- "How It Feels To Be Colored Me" (1928) by Zora Neale Hurston.
- John Dewey, *Individualism Old and New* (1930).
- ~Aimé Césaire, *Discours sur le colonialisme* (Discourse on Colonialism) (1950). (in CW)~

### Week 12

- Selections form *The Origins of Totalitarianism* (1951) by Hannah Arendt.
- Chapter 5 in *The Wretched of the Earth* (1961).
- Selections from *A Rap on Race* (1971) by Margaret Mead and James Baldwin.

***

### COVID19 CUTS

- ~Selective reading (left to your discretion) from [*Imperialism, The Highest Form of
  Capitalism*][1003] (1917) by V.I. Lenin.~
- ~Rosa Luxemburg, *Massenstreik, Partei und Gewerkschaften* (Mass Strike, The Party and the
  Trade Union” (1906).~
- ~"Afterword" in *My Further Disillusionment in Russia* by Emma Goldman (1923).~
- ~Selections from Sartre's Being and Nothingness (1943): "Bad Faith," "The Look," and "Concrete
  Relations with Others"~
- ~Simone de Beauvoir, "Destiny" and "Toward Liberation" from *The Second Sex* (1949).~

[1003]: https://archive.org/download/in.ernet.dli.2015.54815/2015.54815.Imperialism-The-Highest-Stage-Of-Capitalism-A-Popular-Outline_text.pdf
[1001]: https://archive.org/download/nationalism00tagorich/nationalism00tagorich_bw.pdf

Commit message:

update the syllabus with reading selections

2020-spring/README.md, after:

---
title: Contemporary Civilization
date: Spring 2017
instructor: Dennis Tenen
office: Philosophy Hall 408e
contact: dt2406@columbia.edu
section number: CC1102-26
time: M&W 4:10-6:00pm
location: Hamilton 511

---

## The Enlightenment and its Discontents

> Founded in 1919 as a course on War and Peace Issues, the central purpose of
> Contemporary Civilization is to introduce students to a range of issues
> concerning the kinds of communities – political, social, moral, and
> religious – that human beings construct for themselves and the values that
> inform and define such communities; the course is intended to prepare
> students to become active and informed citizens. While readings in this
> one-year course change from time to time, the factors that lead to adoption
> of a text always include historical influence, the presentation of ideas of
> enduring importance, and the demonstrated ability of a text to provoke
> productive discussion.

In the second semester of our course we will explore the rise and the legacy
of Enlightenment thought, where sustained violence and colonial expansion
undermines the promise of rational, scientific basis for the human condition.

## Assessment

The class depends on an engaged readership. To this end, students are expected
read regularly, discuss the texts in class and online, complete a single "core
context" assignment along with a final exam.

* 25% [Class and Online Participation](#class-participation)
* 25% [Midterm Exam](#examinations)
* 25% [Final Exam](#examinations)
* 25% [Core Context](#core-context)

### Core Context

Every week, a student will deliver a short-presentation (~5--10 mins) on the context for the
Text/Author we are reading. This context will comprise of 3--4 headlines selected from
newspapers contemporary to the Text/Author. You can visit a Subject Specialists at Butler
Library <http://library.columbia.edu/about/policies/collection-development/liaisons.html> if
you need assistance in identifying the appropriate digitized archives of historical newspapers.
This presentation should be posted to Courseworks (assignments section) with appropriate PDFs
and/or screenshots for presentation in class.

### Class Participation

To get the full points, you will attend every single class, and be an active listener to your
colleagues, and sometimes, a commenter and facilitator for their ideas and sometimes, a speaker
of your own thoughts.

We expect our discussions--online and in-person--to answer to the ideals embodied in our texts.
We aim for a critical discussion, one that at the same time preserves the multiplicity of
voices present in the classroom. Listen as much as you speak, be respectful of dissenting
voices, enter into a dialogue rather than a soliloquy, show empathy, respond, and encourage
others to speak.

### Examinations

The final exam will consist of ~30 passage IDs. It is designed as an objective
metric that rewards regular engagement with the material.

## Policies

Attendance and participation is required. Class participation requires your active
participation. Some basic rules: come to class on time, do not disrupt the class, put your
phones on silent, turn off all computing devices. As a discussion seminar, this course survives
only if you come to every class, and participate by doing the readings, listening and
commenting in class, turning in the assignment and seeing me during my office hours. Discussion
means attentive and respectful listening, short and timely speaking, and creating a cordial and
warm atmosphere wherein all are invited to test their ideas and impressions. Please read
everything before class. Take notes in the margins of the text; underline key sentences and
paragraphs, annotate; write out what feels extraordinary, questionable, pleasant, or remarkable
(and remark it out loud in class).

### Student Attendance

> Students are expected to attend every session of their Core classes. Students
who miss class without instructor permission should expect to have their grade lowered.
Repeated unexcused absences will result in a failing grade or a withdrawal from the class. In
the event that a student must miss a class due to religious observance, illness, or family
emergency, instructors may strongly encourage (though not require) that students complete
additional assignments to help make up for lost class participation. Whenever possible (in the
case of religious holidays, for example), students should provide advance notification of
absence.

### Plagiarism and Academic Dishonesty

 Columbia College is dedicated to the highest ideals of integrity in academia.  Therefore, in
Literature Humanities and Contemporary Civilization, any instance of academic dishonesty,
attempted or actual, will be reported to the faculty chair of the course and to the dean of the
Core Curriculum, who will review the case with the expectation that a student guilty of
academic dishonesty will receive the grade of “F” in the course and be referred to dean’s
discipline for further institutional action.

## Class Schedule / Reading List

### Week 1

- (re)Introductions, course policies, the big picture.

### Week 2

- Thomas Hobbes, *Leviathan*, "Introduction" and "Part I: Of Man"

### Week 3

- John Locke, *Second Treatise of Government* and "An Essay Concerning Toleration."

### Week 4

- Jean-Jacques Rousseau, *Of the Social Contract, Or Principles of Political Right*, 1762:
  Books I and II.
- *Discourse on the Origin and Basis of Inequality Among Men* (1754), pages 45-92.

### Week 5

- Book 3, Chapter 4 (pages 215-240); Book 4, Chapter 3 (pages 295-312), and Book 5, Chapter 4
  (pages 492-522) in [*The Origin and Progress of the French Revolution*][402] (1794) by Mary
Wollstonecraft.
- Pages 147-176, 223-230, 361-365 in [*Reflections on the Revolution in France*][401] (1790) by Edmund
  Burke.

[402]:https://archive.org/download/historicalmoralv00woll/historicalmoralv00woll.pdf
[401]: https://oll.libertyfund.org/sources/1327-facsimile-pdf-burke-select-works-of-edmund-burke-vol-2/download

### Week 6

- Adam Smith, *An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations* (1776): Book 1
  (Chapter 1-5), Book 4 (Chapter 7, 8).
- Immanuel Kant, [*Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals*][261] (Preface & First Section) and
  [*Of the Different Human Races*][262] (1777, Chapter 2 in the Mikkelsen translation).

[261]: http://www.inp.uw.edu.pl/mdsie/Political_Thought/Kant%20-%20groundwork%20for%20the%20metaphysics%20of%20morals%20with%20essays.pdf
[262]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7158131

### Week 7

- G. W. F. Hegel, "[The Idea of History and its
     Realization](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/works/hi/introduction.htm)"
and "[The Course of World
History](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/works/hi/introduction.htm)."
- Olympe de Gouges, [*Declaration of Rights of Women and the Female Citizen*][602] (1791) 

[602]: https://www-jstor-org.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/stable/j.ctt19b9jvh.24?seq=1#metadata_info_tab_contents

### Week 8

- Chapter I, II, ~III~ in John Stewart Mill, [*On Liberty*][701] (1859) ~and [The Petition of the
  East India Company][702] (1858). Use [this edition][704] if Cambridge is not working for you.
- Peter Kropotkin, *Mutual Aid* (1902), Chapters 7 & 8 "[Mutual Aid Amongst Ourselves][703]"

[701]: https://doi-org.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/10.1017/CBO9781139149785
[702]: http://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/mill-the-collected-works-of-john-stuart-mill-volume-xxx-writings-on-india
[703]: https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/kropotkin-peter/1902/mutual-aid/ch07.htm
[704]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7478777

### Week 9

- Karl *Capital: A Critique of Political Economy* (1867): Part I, Chapter 1 (pages
  41-96). Full text [here][81]. Smaller file (just the selection) [here][83].
- Preface and Introduction to [*The Division of Labor in Society*][82] (1893) by Emile Durkheim,
pages 1-48. Smaller file [here][84].
- ~Selections form *The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism* (1904) by Max Weber.~

[81]: https://oll.libertyfund.org/sources/1456-facsimile-pdf-small-marx-capital-a-critique-of-political-economy-volume-i-the-process-of-capitalist-production/download
[82]: https://archive.org/download/in.ernet.dli.2015.233884/2015.233884.The-Division_text.pdf
[83]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7549650
[84]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7574209

### Week 10

- "Chapter 1: Introduction" and "Chapter 13: The Race Problem in Modern Society" in *[The Mind
of Primitive Man][91]* (1911) by Franz Boas.
- W. E. B. Du Bois, [*The Souls of Black Folk*][92] (1903): Chapters 1, 2, 3, 9, and 14.

[91]: https://archive.org/download/mindofprimitivem031738mbp/mindofprimitivem031738mbp.pdf
[92]: https://archive.org/download/cu31924024920492/cu31924024920492.pdf


### Week 11

- "Nationalism in the West" and "Sunset of the Century" in [*Nationalism*][1101] (1899) by
  Rabindranath Tagore.
- "[How It Feels To Be Colored Me][1102]" (1928) by Zora Neale Hurston.
- Chapter 1, 3, 5, and 8 in [*Individualism Old and New*][1103] (1930) by John Dewey.
- ~Aimé Césaire, *Discours sur le colonialisme* (Discourse on Colonialism) (1950). (in CW)~

[1101]: https://archive.org/download/nationalism00tagorich/nationalism00tagorich_bw.pdf
[1102]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7691317
[1103]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/files/7691393/download?download_frd=1

### Week 12

- Chapters 5, 6, and 9 from [*The Origins of Totalitarianism*][1201] (1951) by Hannah Arendt.
- Preface by Jean-Paul Sartre and "Concerning Violence" in [*The Wretched of the Earth*][1202] (1961).
- Explore [*A Rap on Race*][1203] (1971) by Margaret Mead and James Baldwin.

[1201]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/files/7691594/download?download_frd=1
[1202]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/files/7691597/download?download_frd=1
[1203]: https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/courses/93768/files?preview=7691600

***

### COVID19 CUTS

- ~Selective reading (left to your discretion) from [*Imperialism, The Highest Form of
  Capitalism*][1003] (1917) by V.I. Lenin.~
- ~Rosa Luxemburg, *Massenstreik, Partei und Gewerkschaften* (Mass Strike, The Party and the
  Trade Union” (1906).~
- ~"Afterword" in *My Further Disillusionment in Russia* by Emma Goldman (1923).~
- ~Selections from Sartre's Being and Nothingness (1943): "Bad Faith," "The Look," and "Concrete
  Relations with Others"~
- ~Simone de Beauvoir, "Destiny" and "Toward Liberation" from *The Second Sex* (1949).~

[1003]: https://archive.org/download/in.ernet.dli.2015.54815/2015.54815.Imperialism-The-Highest-Stage-Of-Capitalism-A-Popular-Outline_text.pdf
